This is a demo file for practicing got stash
Thank you



The shell is the interface between the user and the operating system. It acts as a keyboard
interpreter, taking the keyboard input from the user and delivering it to the operating system. You
can think of the shell as being the part of the operating system that allows you to interact with the
kernel. The shell is the program that executes Linux or UNIX commands.
There are several shells available for use in the Linux and UNIX. The one most commonly used in
Linux is the bash shell (Bourne Again Shell). Other shells include sh (Bourne Shell), csh (CShell),
tcsh, csh, and ksh (Korn Shell).
You can change the shell by typing the shell‟s name at a command prompt.
For the purpose of this document, we‟ll focus on the bash shell.
The shell is not only a command interpreter, it is also a scripting language. Experienced Linux
administrators often write scripts to automate frequently conducted system tasks.
Linux, like all multi-user operating systems, has an administrator account which is used for system
configurations and operations. In Linux/UNIX, the administrator account is called “root”
(equivalent to “admin”, “administrator”, or “supervisor” in other operating systems). “root” is often
referred to as the “superuser” because of the account‟s unrestricted access to every area of the
system and every aspect of the system‟s configuration.
When logged on as root using the bash shell, the prompt is a pound sign (#). When logged on as a
regular user using the bash shell, the prompt is a dollar sign ($).
Shell commands in the Linux/UNIX world are usually case sensitive.
You can see your default shell with this command:
#echo $SHELL
Linux Profiles
There are two types of Linux profiles: system-wide and user-specific. System-wide configurations
affect all users, while user-specific configurations affect only a single user. Normally, you must be
root to change system-wide configurations.
User-Specific Profiles
User-specific profile settings are found in the user‟s home directory (/home/donc), but they‟re
hidden by prepending a “.” to the filename. Examples of profile files include:
 .bashrc
 .bash_profile
 .bash_history
There are many others. You can view the hidden files in any directory by using “ls -a”.
System-Wide Configurations
System-wide configuration settings are almost entirely found in /etc. This is where you find files for
configuring Apache, BIND DNS, and nearly any other aspect of Linux. For example, in Debian
Linux, if you want to modify settings of your Apache web server, you would probably modify
/etc/apache2/apache2.conf. If you are working with a Red Hat product, the file most likely is
/etc/httpd/conf/httpd.conf. (The reason for using tentative language is because everything is
configurable in Linux and the person who built your Linux system might have chosen to place the
configuration files elsewhere.)
Administration Tools and Techniques
Working in Terminal
Most Linux systems configured as servers are managed in a command-line interface (CLI) and many
Linux power-users prefer to manager even their desktop system in the CLI. Although the graphical
user interface (GUI) tools available for use in many Linux distros have improved considerably over
past versions, the CLI continues to provide the greatest power and flexibility for configuring and
managing a Linux system. The other benefit to working in a CLI is that each Linux distro is much
more similar in the CLI than in the GUI. For the purpose of this workshop, you will do most of your
configurations in the CLI, thus allowing you to make smoother and simpler transitions from Debian
to other distros such as SuSE, Ubuntu, RedHat, Slackware, or even traditional UNIX systems.
soundthinking Point: Desktop Environments
The default desktop environment in CentOS 5.x, Debian 4.0r5, and many other Linux distros is
Gnome. The desktop environment is what provides the buttons, backgrounds, effects, and
applications. Desktop environments will be covered later in the workshop, but for now understand
that different desktop environments may have slightly different to significantly different menu
locations than those described here.
